from the 44th floor of the tower
Latin American is appreciated the old
trace of the city the current avenues
are distributed in the quadrant of the
pre-Hispanic neighborhoods
the old form of the metropolis
colonial has been transformed with the
time and right here began to
build the most famous skyscraper in
the capital in 1949
almost 60 years after its inauguration
Latin American tower is still the
best viewpoint of the cen welcome to the
Mexico City in Time
i
the convent and the temple of san francisco
they gave name to the first section of the
wooden street during the reign
this architectural ensemble was the most
great of the new spain and had its
period of greatest splendor in the 18th century
crossing the alley of the Countess
I found the house of the Marquises of
santafe de guardiola with its square at
front in 1870 lorenzo de la hidalga
raised on this site the residence of
the escandón family also called the
house of the dogs for the sculptures
that had on the top one of the
which is preserved in the museum of the
tower the grave later the house was
occupied by a school one of the
first agencies of timely notice and
other businesses until it was demolished in
the 30s in the same place today is
the building guardiola annex of the bank of
mexico- work of Carlos on Don Santas
Y
in front of the temple is the house of
the Counts of Valle de Orizaba more
known as the house of tiles
by the colorful coating of their
facades in these images of the years
20 everyday life is portrayed in
the wide wooden street and the junction with
san juan de letrán now the central axis
on the other side of the avenue formerly
had been the convent of santa Isabel
that in its last years it worked as
silk factory your dry cleaner in addition to
several houses nearby for 1904 this
space was free and started the
construction of what would be the new
national theater an art style dream
nouveau created by adamo boari but its
birth was complicated after
the collapse suffer problems
works were suspended in 1913 due to
to the revolution for several different years
commercial accessories of the cigar maker
the good tone covered the works
unfinished that resumed until 1927
the now called palace of fine arts
It was finished in 1934 with an elegant
art deco interior made by federico
marshal
the pieces of Augustine querol were
in a beginning about the cube of the room
concerts were then transferred to
pedestal and returned to the square to the
inauguration of the whole the building of
the national that appears in these
photographs of the 30s and 40s was the
highest in the city when he opened his
doors in 1932 was designed by manuel
ortiz monastery bernardo kalderón luís
Avila and was the spearhead for others
constructions that were erected in the
same sidewalk of san juan de letrán just
widened
the Latin American tower began to
be built in 1949 between the traffic of
the era you see the first building that
occupied the insurance company the
Latin American in the next decade
this construction was replaced by
another art- deco style that had a
ephemeral life because it gave place to the
tower in the late 40s
the engineers faced
muddy subsoil this designed property
by augusto álvarez and leonardo cyber
floats on the complicated city ​​floor
thanks to an injection mechanism
water at the completion of the work the tower
Latin American was also one of the
safest skyscrapers in the world and
although the clock at the top already
disappeared his memory still lives in the
popular imaginary
on the 44th floor he filmed himself alone
couple the 'opera prima' by alfonso
When the building was ideal for
settle the love conflicts of a
couple of boys of the 90s we had
seen the Latin American tower in
some movies but never like
appears in these sequences
san juan de letrán and san francisco
they changed the name of the tower
Latin American is one of the buildings
highest in the capital since it changed
forever the landscape of downtown
historic see you in the next
capsule of the city ​​of mexico in the
weather